GITHUB TERMINAL COMMANDS

This is a reference sheet to help when using github to collaborate on projects.
It explains:
    How to clone a repository
    Pulling and pushing code
    Working with branches
    Using pull requests
    Order of operations
If you haven't used git read through the whole thing or if you have use CTRL-F to find parts you're looking for.


CLONING A REPOSITORY
The first step before you start working is cloning the repository to your machine.

    - open a folder in vscode where you want the repository to be.
    - find your repository on the github website and look for the green "code" button. the repo link is located there.
    - run this command in your vscode terminal.
    > git clone [repository link]
    - Then you'll either want to cd into the folder or open the repository file in vscode.

* NONE OF THE FOLLOWING COMMANDS WILL WORK IF YOU'RE NOT IN THE GITHUB REPO FILE *

PULLING CODE
To make sure you code is up to date, run this command everytime before you start working:

    >git pull

This pulls from the main branch on github and puts it on your local machine.

CREATING A BRANCH
When you want to start making changes to the code run this command:

    >git checkout -b [branch name]

Creates a new branch and swithces you to that branch. You can change and edit all you want and will be able to push it
without affecting the main code.

Other commands relating to branches:

    Checking what branch you're on:
        >git branch
    Switching branches:
        >git checkout [branch name]
    Deleting your branch (need to switch off it before you can delete it):
        >git branch -d [branch name]

PUSHING YOUR BRANCH TO GITHUB
After you finish your edits and are ready to push it follow these commands:

    >git add [filename] or >git add . (a dot will add all files changed)
    >git commit -m "[description of what you changed]"
    >git push 
    you might get an error message in that case copy and paste the code it gives you, it'll look like this:
    >git branch --set-upstream origin [branch name]

Now if you go to your repository on the github website you should see your branch.


OPENING A PULL REQUEST
Now that your branch is on github you can use the website interface to open a pull request. A pull request is 
you asking someone to review your code and merge it into the main branch.

    - Go to your repository
    - Click on the "Pull requests" tab towards the top.
    - Select your branch that you made changes to.
    - Click on the green "create pull request" button.
    - You can write a comment if you want then hit the "create pull request" button again.

Your pull request is now posted and you can notify a group member to review it.

REVIEWING AND MERGING A PULL REQUEST
When you're reviewing a pull request it's your responsibility to look at the code and make sure there are no mistakes.
You don't wanna merge bad code into main, if you do when people pull it everyones code will be broken. 

    - Go to your repository.
    - Click on the "Pull requests" tab.
    - Find and click the open pull request you've been asked to review.
    - Review code then click the green drop down arrow and select "squash and merge"
    - You can now delete the branch in github and your terminal

ORDER OF OPERATIONS
These are the steps you should follow when making changes:
1. pull code
2. make a branch
3. edit code
4. push branch
5. open pull request
6. get someone to merge it
7. delete branch







